README.md, before:

# Testing Go for Statistics: MSDS 431

This project was created for the Week 3 assignment in MSDS 431, titled Testing Go for Statistics. anscombe.go is a small program that uses the Anscombe Quartet datasets to calculate their estimated linear regression coefficients. It utilizes the stats library/package created by montanaflynn (github.com/montanaflynn/stats), as well as the fmt and math libraries.

## func roundFloat

I was surprised to learn that neither the Go or the math library had a function that could round to precise decimal places, only functions that rounded to the nearest integer. roundFloat is a function that I found at https://gosamples.dev/round-float/ that fills this need until Go or math add a similar function.

## func LinRegCoef

LinRegCoef accepts a stats.Coordinate struct, which is an array of ordered pairs that must first be passed through stats.LinReg. Then, if x1 - x2 != 0, it calculates the linear regression coefficient, rounds to 4 decimal places using roundFloat, and returns the coefficient. If x1 - x2 = 0, then it loops through the ordered pairs until it finds 2 pairs where x1 - x2 != 0, and then proceeds to calculate and round the coefficient.

## Testing - Python/R vs. Go

In my testing, the Go stats library produced identical linear regression coefficients. 

Python results: 

![Python Results](python-results-1.png "Python Results")

Commit message:

added more images, added Go performance metrics

README.md, after:

# Testing Go for Statistics: MSDS 431

This project was created for the Week 3 assignment in MSDS 431, titled Testing Go for Statistics. anscombe.go is a small program that uses the Anscombe Quartet datasets to calculate their estimated linear regression coefficients. It utilizes the stats library/package created by montanaflynn (github.com/montanaflynn/stats), as well as the fmt and math libraries.

## func roundFloat

I was surprised to learn that neither the Go or the math library had a function that could round to precise decimal places, only functions that rounded to the nearest integer. roundFloat is a function that I found at https://gosamples.dev/round-float/ that fills this need until Go or math add a similar function.

## func LinRegCoef

LinRegCoef accepts a stats.Coordinate struct, which is an array of ordered pairs that must first be passed through stats.LinReg. Then, if x1 - x2 != 0, it calculates the linear regression coefficient, rounds to 4 decimal places using roundFloat, and returns the coefficient. If x1 - x2 = 0, then it loops through the ordered pairs until it finds 2 pairs where x1 - x2 != 0, and then proceeds to calculate and round the coefficient.

## Testing: Python/R vs. Go

### Calculating linear regression coefficients

In my testing, the Go stats library produced identical linear regression coefficients. 

For the first Anscombe dataset, Python produced 0.5001 as the linear regression coefficient - screenshot below, circled in yellow:
![Python Results](python-results-1.png "Python Results")

Likewise, R produced the same exact linear regression coefficient of 0.5001 for dataset 1:
![R Results](r-results-1.png "R Results")

Go was able to produce the exact same linear regression coefficient of 0.5001 for dataset 1:
![Go Results](go-results-1.png "Go Results")

### Performance

Here are some performance benchmarks for the custom functions in anscombe.go: 
```
sergiovalentini@MacBook-Pro-2 Week3 % go test -bench=. -benchmem
goos: darwin
goarch: arm64
pkg: Week3
BenchmarkLinRegCoef_1-8         86559735                13.63 ns/op            0 B/op          0 allocs/op
BenchmarkLinRegCoef_4-8         65842717                17.75 ns/op            0 B/op          0 allocs/op
BenchmarkRoundFloat-8           96879994                12.09 ns/op            0 B/op          0 allocs/op
PASS
ok      Week3   4.506s
```
The second column of performance metrics - which includes the numbers `86559735`, `65842717`, and `96879994` - is the amount of time needed to run one pass of that benchmark in nanoseconds. For BenchmarkRoundFloat-8 - the longest benchmark result - this translates to roughly 0.097 seconds, which is an incredible speed.
